---
title: AS399728
description: To fulfill its mission, P Foundation operates the global network (AS399728).
---

# AS399728

P Foundation is a nonprofit organization, established in 2021, that aims to advance democracy by combating blackouts and connecting those in need.

To fulfill our mission, we operate a global network (AS399728) and have a presence at multiple Internet Exchange Points (IXPs).

The most current information about the facilities and IXPs we are located in, as well as our peering details, can be found on our PeeringDB page.

## Peering

AS399728 has an open peering policy, and will peer with networks that have a presence on mutual exchange points in accordance with the policies described below.

We use PeeringDB as the single authoritative source for peering information. Prospective peering partners must maintain an up-to-date PeeringDB profile before a bilateral peering session can be initiated.

Peering requests can be submitted via email to peering@p.foundation.

### Peering Recommendations

To enhance connectivity, quality, and performance, P Foundation operates an international network (AS399728). We welcome the opportunity to engage in peering with responsible BGP speakers who meet our minimum requirements and are present at mutual Internet Exchanges or data center facilities.

- Peers must operate a public and visible ASN.
- If multiple connections to an IXP exist, peers must establish BGP sessions with all neighbors and enable multipath routing.
- P Foundation has not set a minimum bandwidth threshold for peering.
- Both parties are expected to register their routes in a public Internet Routing Registry (IRR) for filtering purposes. Both parties should make good faith efforts to keep this information current.
- Either party may accept or decline peering requests based on network management needs.
- Neither party should establish a static route, a route of last resort, or send traffic to the other party for a route not announced via BGP.
- Neither party should announce more specific routes of prefixes learned via a third-party transit customer.
- Both parties will exchange only Unicast IPv4/6 routes.
- Both parties must maintain an up-to-date PeeringDB profile, including 24x7 NOC contact information.
- P Foundation does not mandate the use of an MD5 key for securing BGPv4 sessions but can accommodate this if requested.
- P Foundation requires peers to register their routes in the RPKI repository using Route Object Authorization (ROA) objects.
- Peers are encouraged to adopt Mutually Agreed Norms for Routing Security (MANRS).

### Peering Information

- ASN - AS399728
- IRR as-set - AS-PFOUNDATION
- Suggested Prefix Limit
  - IPv4 - 15
  - IPv6 - 30
- PeeringDB - as399728.peeringdb.com
- Geofeed - https://geofeed.p.foundation/feed.csv

## Contact Information

- NOC noc@p.foundation
- Peering peering@p.foundation
- https://p.foundation/

## Non-Peering ASN

We also manage AS400786 ([PFS Ltd](/pfs)); prefixes originating from this ASN are part of our content network.
