src/pages/crisisResponsePlan.md, before:

---
title: Crisis Response Plan
description: P Foundation crisis response plan in case of military conflict in Lebanon.
unlisted: true
---

# Crisis Response Plan

With the escalating potential for military conflict in Lebanon, the P Foundation has activated its crisis response plan. This initiative is undertaken in close partnership with the Lebanese Ministry of Telecom, and local organizations.

Similar to [MediaGuard Continuity Plan](/messages/mediaguard_continuity_plan), this plan augments the existing P Foundation programs, enhancing their capacity and introducing new services.

While our objective is to mitigate Lebanon's disconnection from the global internet, we recognize the limitations posed by our resources in achieving this goal entirely.

Upon completing all allocations related to ResilientNet, and with the onset of any conflict, we will broaden our Citizen Mesh program to assist other communities.

In adherence to regulatory mandates, all internet traffic facilitated through our deployment is channeled through the P Foundation Network (AS322728).

## Critical Infrastructure Connectivity (ResilientNet)

ResilientNet aims to maintain internet connectivity for critical establishments imperative for public welfare.

Central to this program is a meticulous, needs-based assessment methodology, tailored to discern the distinct connectivity requisites of each targeted critical establishment.

Although we have streamlined the assessment process typically applied, our deployment priority is directed towards first responders, medical facilities, and select public establishments.

| Category           | Entity             | Locations | Mobile Locations |
| ------------------ | ------------------ | --------- | ---------------- |
| First Responders   | Red Cross          | 25        | 1                |
| First Responders   | Civil Defense      | 3         | 0                |
| First Responders   | ISF                | 3         | 0                |
| First Responders   | UN OCHA            | 3         | 0                |
| Emergency Services | Hospitals          | 29        | 0                |
| Emergency Services | Forensic Labs (UL) | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | EDL                | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Ogero              | 2         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Civil Aviation     | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Beirut Port        | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Tripoli Port       | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Mic 1              | 2         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Mic 2              | 2         | 0                |
| Lebanon Government | Ministries         | 17        | 0                |
| Lebanon Government | Parliament         | 1         | 0                |
| Lebanon Government | Public Media       | 3         | 0                |
| Replacement        |                    | 5         | 0                |

### Deployment Process

Each entity entitled to ResilientNet (through Ministry of Telecommunications) must submit a request via email to crisisresponse@p.foundation, including the following details:

- Number of people benefiting from the service (if applicable)
- Internet access requirement (e.g. speed, wifi, lan, bgp, dedicated ip, ...)
- Network Reuqirement
- Location of facility, including coordinates or a Google Maps link
- Point of Contact
- Technical Point of Contact
- Upon receiving your request, we will review all the provided information and forward it to the Ministry of Telecom for approval.

Once approved, the required devices will be allocated to you for collection, and you will be added to relevant messaging groups to assist you with the setup.

While the hardware is in your possession, it is your responsibility to maintain and safeguard it, ensuring its return in the same condition it was received.

## Community Connectivity (Citizen Mesh)

The P Foundation deeply acknowledges the transformative essence of connectivity. Internet access during conflicts acts as a channel for information dissemination, public engagement, and global cognizance, thus underscoring the resilience of internet infrastructure.

Internet access during conflicts serve as a conduit for information warfare, public engagement, and global awareness. The digital landscape facilitates real-time updates and citizen-driven narratives, contributing to a broader understanding and sometimes humanitarian response to the unfolding crisis. Moreover, the resilience of internet infrastructure underlines its significance in maintaining communication channels, while also spotlighting issues surrounding digital rights, cybersecurity, and narrative control in such geopolitical confrontations.

Our crisis response extends our Citizen Mesh program, incorporating multiple open access services.

### Emergency Internet Connectivity Zones (EICZs)

_Pending MOU with LRC and IFRC_

In collaboration with the Lebanese Red Cross , local communities, and P Foundation volunteers, we aim to establish over 50 Emergency Internet Connectivity Zones (EICZs) across secure Lebanese territories in the event of a conflict, prioritizing areas with a high influx of displaced individuals and erratic internet access.

Each zone is equipped with multiple WiFi access points, facilitating easy internet access for the public.

These zones are solar-powered and designed to provide internet connectivity for at least 18 hours a day. During daylight hours, each zone is equipped with power cords allowing the public to charge their devices.

If mandated by Lebanese Authorities, individuals accessing the internet via the EICZs may be required to register and verify their identity before connecting.

The list of active EICZs will be available on our website, as well as on social channels.

#### Additional Information

To cater to the maximum number of users, we employ real-time internet quality monitoring. During periods of peak usage, access to video and streaming services may be restricted.

Furthermore, since the service is provided in public spaces, we utilize Cloudflare's 1.1.1.1 service to safeguard families by blocking access to malware and adult content.

### Mobile Internet Connectivity Zones

Similar to EICZs, we have prepared 2 Mobile EICZs (MICZs) ready for deployment to locations that necessitate vital internet access following certain events.

The MICZs utilize specialized mobile hardware that facilitates immediate internet deployment, providing access via both WiFi and ethernet.

We anticipate that individuals will utilize MICZs to connect with family and friends, reassuring them of their safety. Additionally, media organizations can leverage MICZs as a backup for their live reporting.

### Post Conflict Assignment

Following the conclusion of the conflict, and as displaced individuals begin to return to their hometowns, the EICZs can be dynamically relocated to provide connectivity while Ogero continues to restore the damaged infrastructure.

## Change Log

**10/31/23 22:05**

- Removed "Needs based assestment" from ResilientNet segment.
- Updated allocations table.

Commit message:

Add details to ResilientNet deployment process

src/pages/crisisResponsePlan.md, after:

---
title: Crisis Response Plan
description: P Foundation crisis response plan in case of military conflict in Lebanon.
unlisted: true
---

# Crisis Response Plan

With the escalating potential for military conflict in Lebanon, the P Foundation has activated its crisis response plan. This initiative is undertaken in close partnership with the Lebanese Ministry of Telecom, and local organizations.

Similar to [MediaGuard Continuity Plan](/messages/mediaguard_continuity_plan), this plan augments the existing P Foundation programs, enhancing their capacity and introducing new services.

While our objective is to mitigate Lebanon's disconnection from the global internet, we recognize the limitations posed by our resources in achieving this goal entirely.

Upon completing all allocations related to ResilientNet, and with the onset of any conflict, we will broaden our Citizen Mesh program to assist other communities.

In adherence to regulatory mandates, all internet traffic facilitated through our deployment is channeled through the P Foundation Network (AS322728).

## Critical Infrastructure Connectivity (ResilientNet)

ResilientNet aims to maintain internet connectivity for critical establishments imperative for public welfare.

Central to this program is a meticulous, needs-based assessment methodology, tailored to discern the distinct connectivity requisites of each targeted critical establishment.

Although we have streamlined the assessment process typically applied, our deployment priority is directed towards first responders, medical facilities, and select public establishments.

| Category           | Entity             | Locations | Mobile Locations |
| ------------------ | ------------------ | --------- | ---------------- |
| First Responders   | Red Cross          | 25        | 1                |
| First Responders   | Civil Defense      | 3         | 0                |
| First Responders   | ISF                | 3         | 0                |
| First Responders   | UN OCHA            | 3         | 0                |
| Emergency Services | Hospitals          | 29        | 0                |
| Emergency Services | Forensic Labs (UL) | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | EDL                | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Ogero              | 2         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Civil Aviation     | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Beirut Port        | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Tripoli Port       | 1         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Mic 1              | 2         | 0                |
| Utilities          | Mic 2              | 2         | 0                |
| Lebanon Government | Ministries         | 17        | 0                |
| Lebanon Government | Parliament         | 1         | 0                |
| Lebanon Government | Public Media       | 3         | 0                |
| Replacement        |                    | 5         | 0                |

### Deployment Process

Each entity entitled to ResilientNet (through Ministry of Telecommunications) must submit a request using the webform or by email to crisisresponse@p.foundation, including the following details:

- Name of the organization
- Number of people benefiting from the service (if applicable)
- Internet access requirement (e.g. speed, wifi, lan, bgp, dedicated ip, ...)
- Network Reuqirement
- Location of facility, including coordinates or a Google Maps link (The service will be limited mentioned location.)
- Point of Contact
- Technical Point of Contact
- Upon receiving your request, we will review all the provided information and forward it to the Ministry of Telecom for approval.

Once approved, the required devices will be allocated to you for collection, and you will be added to relevant messaging groups to assist you with the setup.

While the hardware is in your possession, it is your responsibility to maintain and safeguard it, ensuring its return in the same condition it was received.

## Community Connectivity (Citizen Mesh)

The P Foundation deeply acknowledges the transformative essence of connectivity. Internet access during conflicts acts as a channel for information dissemination, public engagement, and global cognizance, thus underscoring the resilience of internet infrastructure.

Internet access during conflicts serve as a conduit for information warfare, public engagement, and global awareness. The digital landscape facilitates real-time updates and citizen-driven narratives, contributing to a broader understanding and sometimes humanitarian response to the unfolding crisis. Moreover, the resilience of internet infrastructure underlines its significance in maintaining communication channels, while also spotlighting issues surrounding digital rights, cybersecurity, and narrative control in such geopolitical confrontations.

Our crisis response extends our Citizen Mesh program, incorporating multiple open access services.

### Emergency Internet Connectivity Zones (EICZs)

_Pending MOU with LRC and IFRC_

In collaboration with the Lebanese Red Cross , local communities, and P Foundation volunteers, we aim to establish over 50 Emergency Internet Connectivity Zones (EICZs) across secure Lebanese territories in the event of a conflict, prioritizing areas with a high influx of displaced individuals and erratic internet access.

Each zone is equipped with multiple WiFi access points, facilitating easy internet access for the public.

These zones are solar-powered and designed to provide internet connectivity for at least 18 hours a day. During daylight hours, each zone is equipped with power cords allowing the public to charge their devices.

If mandated by Lebanese Authorities, individuals accessing the internet via the EICZs may be required to register and verify their identity before connecting.

The list of active EICZs will be available on our website, as well as on social channels.

#### Additional Information

To cater to the maximum number of users, we employ real-time internet quality monitoring. During periods of peak usage, access to video and streaming services may be restricted.

Furthermore, since the service is provided in public spaces, we utilize Cloudflare's 1.1.1.1 service to safeguard families by blocking access to malware and adult content.

### Mobile Internet Connectivity Zones

Similar to EICZs, we have prepared 2 Mobile EICZs (MICZs) ready for deployment to locations that necessitate vital internet access following certain events.

The MICZs utilize specialized mobile hardware that facilitates immediate internet deployment, providing access via both WiFi and ethernet.

We anticipate that individuals will utilize MICZs to connect with family and friends, reassuring them of their safety. Additionally, media organizations can leverage MICZs as a backup for their live reporting.

### Post Conflict Assignment

Following the conclusion of the conflict, and as displaced individuals begin to return to their hometowns, the EICZs can be dynamically relocated to provide connectivity while Ogero continues to restore the damaged infrastructure.

## Change Log

**10/05/23 17:00**

- Added details to deployment process

**10/31/23 22:05**

- Removed "Needs based assestment" from ResilientNet segment.
- Updated allocations table.
