---
title: Roadmap to 2027
description: As we look to the future, our goals are to strengthen partnerships, expand citizen-centered initiatives, and develop talent for rapid problem-solving, driven by a flexible response to Middle Eastern dynamics.
slug: roadmap_to_2027
authors: jud
#image: https://i.imgur.com/mErPwqL.png
hide_table_of_contents: true
date: 2024-03-30T09:00:00Z
---

# Roadmap to 2027

Every birthday brings with it a moment of reflection, a brief melancholy that pushes me to evaluate my journey so far. In 2021, as I approached my 30th birthday, the introspection was different. I found myself thinking not just about my past but also about my legacy. It wasn't just another birthday—it was a turning point.

I grew up in a Lebanese Christian household that resisted the Syrian occupation of Lebanon. We criticized the United States role in the situation, yet we understood that only the US had the power to change it. My father was a remarkable figure in my life, always instilling in me that there are no limits to what we can achieve, that we control our own destiny, and that our choices define us. Later, my brother played an even bigger role in shaping my worldview. He introduced me to different cultures, sects and unwittingly led me to the world of media. I had the unique opportunity to grow up in newsrooms—first at a radio station, then at a television network. This exposure, at such an early age, laid the foundation for everything I would do later.

<!--truncate-->

In my younger years, I started out as a developer. I moved into the corporate world, but it didn’t take long for me to realize that it wasn’t where I belonged. I left to pursue commercial media independently, only to find myself eventually shifting toward communications. None of these transitions were planned; they happened because I saw a goal worth pursuing in each new phase.

Meanwhile, Lebanon was enduring its third year of a deepening financial crisis. Poverty was on the rise, infrastructure was crumbling, and basic services were failing. Some areas were dealing with daily internet blackouts, impacting not only households but essential services like medication distribution. Internet access had become a political bargaining chip, with politicians using it as leverage against the public.

As my 30th birthday approached, I knew I could no longer afford to move forward without a clear plan. I decided that I was done doing things that didn’t resonate with me. The best legacy, I believed, was one that left a positive impact on the community.
I am a firm believer that open internet access is as vital as education for the future of any nation. Free journalism is another pillar I stand by. Both of these beliefs converged on that introspective day, and before I knew it, I was filling out paperwork to register a foundation in Washington, D.C.

I’ve always preferred working behind the scenes, and it was no different for the foundation. I didn't even bother to create a Twitter account for it. I focused on building a network that would serve as the backbone for our future endeavors. At the same time, I reached out to friends in media organizations, trying to understand their challenges and exploring ways to help. Parallel to this, we were tackling smaller but significant issues, such as minor internet outages in Lebanon. By working with different organizations, we aimed to keep people connected, even if that meant nudging entities to simply do their jobs or by integrating with their teams to directly address the challenges they faced.

The vision for the foundation took shape gradually. We began developing programs that addressed core challenges, while also stepping in with initiatives when crises struck. One such example was @LebanonAlerts, a small but impactful initiative which helped alleviate local fear and anxiety following the deadly 2023 earthquake in Turkey.

On October 7th, we woke up to news of a massacre in south Israel, only for certain groups in Lebanon to use the situation as a pretext to ignite tensions with Israel. By October 18th, we had prepared our media continuity plan, scaling up resources and preparing for a potential escalation between Israel and Hezbollah. Ensuring Lebanon’s continued access to the internet was a priority for us, and as we observed the Lebanese government's inadequate response, we put together a connectivity response plan and began communicating with relevant parties. Unfortunately, political complications led to our plan being sidelined - Hezbollah’s opposition being a major reason. Setbacks are an inevitable part of any meaningful journey, but we remain committed to ensuring that Lebanon stays connected.

Creating a traditional roadmap in such an unpredictable environment, especially in the Middle East where we operate, would be impractical. Instead, we need a flexible framework—one that could adapt to the ever-changing political and social landscape, allowing us to respond effectively to new challenges as they arise.With all these considerations, here are the key priorities and goals I envision for the next three years:

### Expand our Partnerships

We aim to increase the number of beneficiaries of our programs by adding more organizations to our MediaGuard initiative. Transitioning infrastructure is not an easy task, especially for organizations with small digital teams—often consisting of just one system administrator, if not outsourced. To facilitate this transition, we plan to offer more personalized, one-on-one support and a dedicated point of contact to improve efficiency and ensure a smoother migration process.

### Strengthen Citizen-Focused Programs and Initiatives

By collaborating closely with various stakeholders, we see opportunities to offer more tools, utilities, and integrated support, particularly to existing organizations that directly serve citizens. Our goal is to deepen our partnerships with organizations that have significant grassroots experience and direct impact on citizens' lives. By doing so, we can better address community needs and enhance the support provided to individuals on the ground.

### Forward Deployed Software Engineer Model

I am a strong advocate of the Forward Deployed Software Engineer (FDSE) role and model, originally popularized by Palantir. This approach blends software engineering expertise with direct client engagement, allowing for rapid problem-solving and effective integration. By adopting this model, we can address issues more quickly and provide end-to-end solutions for the challenges faced by our partners.

Until now, I have personally integrated with every new partner—working alongside them throughout various stages, joining internal scrum calls, and collaborating closely with their developers, system administrators, management, and other teams to create solutions that meet everyone's needs.

The talent pool for Forward Deployed Software Engineers (FDSE) is currently very limited, if not non-existent, in the Middle East. I see a significant opportunity to transform this gap into a structured program or initiative. Such a program would foster creativity, technical problem-solving, and a collaborative mindset, equipping software engineers with the skills to adapt to rapid project changes and make independent decisions effectively.

### Expanding Our Programs

Through my close integration with various partners, I have identified several key services and integrations that they continually struggle with. These range from basic functionalities, such as managing and scaling push notification services, to more complex, deeply-rooted challenges within their newsrooms.

By leveraging advancements in machine learning—often referred to as "AI"—we have managed to accelerate our development processes without expanding our team excessively. This approach allows us to release features more rapidly and introduce new functionalities at a greater pace.
Building on these advancements, we aim to expand our programs with additional offerings, enhancing the support we provide to our partners and addressing their most pressing needs.

One might think that three years is plenty of time to achieve these goals—and it certainly seems that way. However, given the ever-changing dynamics of the Middle East, this is ultimately a long-term vision for what we hope to accomplish.

Stay safe,\
Jud
