updates/2026-01-01-2025lb_state_of_internet.md, before:

---
title: 2025 State of the Internet in Lebanon
description: A snapshot of Lebanon’s Internet in 2025, covering traffic growth, service and device trends, and shifting ISP market share.
slug: 2025lb_state_of_internet
authors: jud
image: https://assets.p.foundation/assets/a80aff34-af99-4e6d-8bd4-c38f98f29196?key=social
hide_table_of_contents: false
date: 2026-01-01T17:00:00Z
---

# 2025 State of the Internet in Lebanon

As we enter a new year, it’s a good moment to look back at 2025 and see how Lebanon’s Internet evolved—from traffic growth and device shifts to routing, security, and ISP market share.

Understanding how a country’s local networks change over time helps explain performance and resilience, and highlights where local interconnection can make a real difference. That’s also the spirit behind OpenIX Beirut and P Foundation’s pledge to make connectivity more local so more traffic can stay local when it makes sense.

<!--truncate-->

## Quick 2025 facts [^1]

- Internet traffic grew by **36%**.
- Top Internet services (ranked): **Google, Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, WhatsApp, YouTube, Apple Services, Microsoft, Snapchat, Outlook**.
- Messaging apps (ranked): **WhatsApp** leads, followed by **QQ**, then **Telegram**, Viber, Signal, WeChat, imo, Facebook Messenger.
- Mobile OS share shifted:
  - **iOS rose to 37%** (from 27%)
  - **Android fell to 63%** (from 73%)
- Google maintained **~97%** share in search.
- IPv6 adoption decreased from **0.96%** to **0.77%**.
- Latency remains high for most services at around **51 ms**.
- Desktop traffic increased from **39%** to **45%**.
- Routing security (RPKI):
  - **0.25% decrease** in RPKI-valid IPv4 address space in Lebanon
  - **0.51% increase** in RPKI-valid IPv4 routes in Lebanon

## ISP and network market share: what changed

Lebanon’s ISP landscape saw noticeable shifts between 2024 and 2025. **OGERO(AS42003), the dominant state telecom provider, declined slightly from 17.96% to 16.75%** , pointing to increased competition and service constraints.

The largest gain came from **Alfa** (AS57513), which **grew from 6.23% to 7.61%**, consistent with stronger mobile Internet usage and/or improved service reach. By contrast, **TH Global Vision** (AS59989) **dropped sharply from 6.48% to 4.77%**, losing nearly **26%** of its prior share.

Beyond TH Global Vision’s decline, **several established players lost ground**. ENERGY Bridge (AS56902) slipped from 3.41% to 3.04%, SODETEL (AS31126) from 1.45% to 1.22%, and WaveNet (AS31037) from 1.36% to 1.08%. More dramatically, GSL Networks (AS137409) fell from 0.43% to 0.11% (a ~74% drop), and EagleNet (AS60372) decreased from 0.63% to 0.46%.

Mobile operators diverged: **Alfa grew strongly**, while Touch (AS38999) rose more modestly from 5.90% to 6.36%. The **entry of Starlink** (AS14593) at 0.035% is also notable, introducing LEO satellite Internet into the Lebanese market potentially pressuring traditional ISPs, particularly in underserved and rural areas.

Several **smaller providers posted strong growth**. My ISP (AS34447) grew from 1.19% to 2.04%, and Ferrari Networks (AS39402) increased from 1.60% to 2.16%. ZINA SARL (AS206519) expanded from 0.30% to 0.51% (+68%), while Smart Networks (AS34458) rose from 1.09% to 1.37%. Among **micro-ISPs**, Smart City (AS204429) more than doubled (0.08% to 0.20%), Coinnet/Matrix (AS214728) nearly quadrupled (0.02% to 0.07%), and CONNEXIONS SAL (AS205423) increased from 0.004% to 0.018%. AOUN Networks (AS13044) stood out with growth from 0.07% to 0.33%, **suggesting aggressive expansion and/or acquisition activity**.

Overall, the market appears to be gradually fragmenting. The **top 5 providers accounted for roughly 44% of traffic** (down from 45% in 2024), and **the top 10 accounted for about 62%** (down from 63%). Meanwhile, **stable performers** such as TerraNet (AS39010) (9.75% → 9.95%) and IDM (AS9051) (9.74% → 9.90%) **maintained their positions**, suggesting strong retention despite broad turbulence.

Finally, the presence of **200+ ASNs**, including many micro-ISPs below 0.1% share, reflects Lebanon’s **highly fragmented telecom environment—shaped by infrastructure limitations**, the electricity crisis, and regulatory complexity. The trend also suggests Lebanese consumers are increasingly willing to switch providers for better service, **with mobile (and potentially satellite) emerging as viable alternatives** to traditional fixed-line access.

---

## Top 30 networks in Lebanon

| Rank | ISP / ASN                            | 2024 Share | 2025 Share | Change (pp) |
| ---: | ------------------------------------ | ---------: | ---------: | ----------: |
|    1 | OGERO TELECOM (AS42003)              |     17.96% |     16.75% |       -1.20 |
|    2 | TERRANET (AS39010)                   |      9.75% |      9.95% |       +0.20 |
|    3 | IDM (AS9051)                         |      9.74% |      9.90% |       +0.16 |
|    4 | ALFA (AS57513)                       |      6.23% |      7.61% |       +1.39 |
|    5 | TOUCH (AS38999)                      |      5.90% |      6.36% |       +0.46 |
|    6 | TH GLOBAL VISION (AS59989)           |      6.48% |      4.77% |       -1.71 |
|    7 | MASCO (AS43824)                      |      4.59% |      4.77% |       +0.18 |
|    8 | ENERGY BRIDGE (AS56902)              |      3.41% |      3.04% |       -0.37 |
|    9 | VISP (AS35197)                       |      2.59% |      2.98% |       +0.39 |
|   10 | NETPRO (AS48206)                     |      2.54% |      2.28% |       -0.27 |
|   11 | FERRARINETWORKS(AS39402)             |      1.60% |      2.16% |       +0.56 |
|   12 | MY ISP (AS34447)                     |      1.19% |      2.04% |       +0.85 |
|   13 | FARAHNET (AS43019)                   |      1.63% |      1.73% |       +0.10 |
|   14 | CBEY (AS206406)                      |      1.28% |      1.42% |       +0.14 |
|   15 | SMARTNETS (AS34458)                  |      1.09% |      1.37% |       +0.28 |
|   16 | CONNECT (AS48847)                    |      1.37% |      1.37% |       +0.00 |
|   17 | SODETEL(AS31126)                     |      1.45% |      1.22% |       -0.23 |
|   18 | WAVENET (AS31037)                    |      1.36% |      1.08% |       -0.28 |
|   19 | NET360 (AS42183)                     |      1.12% |      0.97% |       -0.15 |
|   20 | MNETS (AS41956)                      |      1.06% |      0.89% |       -0.17 |
|   21 | CYBERIA (AS24634)                    |      0.82% |      0.86% |       +0.03 |
|   22 | BBP (AS42334)                        |      0.74% |      0.78% |       +0.05 |
|   23 | FIBERSKYNET (AS49020)                |      0.73% |      0.75% |       +0.02 |
|   24 | TOPNETLB(AS42828)                    |      0.78% |      0.75% |       -0.03 |
|   25 | BITAR NET (AS50500)                  |      0.79% |      0.71% |       -0.08 |
|   26 | FIBER NETWORKS (AS202987)            |      0.61% |      0.66% |       +0.06 |
|   27 | ICONNECT (AS15511)                   |      0.69% |      0.65% |       -0.04 |
|   28 | PROS (AS57256)                       |      0.53% |      0.62% |       +0.09 |
|   29 | BSMART (AS25471)                     |      0.56% |      0.53% |       -0.04 |
|   30 | REMINI TELECOM - VIP GROUP (AS51104) |      0.48% |      0.52% |       +0.03 |

_Change (pp) = 2025 share minus 2024 share (percentage points). Values rounded to 2 decimals._

## OpenIX Beirut

OpenIX Beirut is built to strengthen Lebanon’s Internet by making local interconnection simpler, faster, and more accessible—so networks can exchange traffic locally instead of sending it abroad when it doesn’t need to.

OpenIX Beirut is now **open for business**. We welcome Lebanese networks, mobile operators, content and cloud platforms, enterprises, and CDNs to join and peer locally. [Click here to learn more](https://p.foundation/OpenIX/beirut).

---

[^1]: Data is based on traffic observed on our network, supplemented by publicly available Cloudflare data. For additional context, see [Cloudflare Radar 2025 Year in Review for Lebanon](https://radar.cloudflare.com/year-in-review/2025/lb). Cover image credit: Piotr Chrobot (Unsplash); edited with Google Nano Banana.

Commit message:

fix: enhance clarity and consistency in 2025 Lebanon Internet report

updates/2026-01-01-2025lb_state_of_internet.md, after:

---
title: 2025 State of the Internet in Lebanon
description: A snapshot of Lebanon’s Internet in 2025, covering traffic growth, service and device trends, and shifting ISP market share.
slug: 2025lb_state_of_internet
authors: jud
image: https://assets.p.foundation/assets/a80aff34-af99-4e6d-8bd4-c38f98f29196?key=social
hide_table_of_contents: false
date: 2026-01-01T17:00:00Z
---

# 2025 State of the Internet in Lebanon

As we enter a new year, it’s a good moment to look back at 2025 and see how Lebanon’s Internet evolved—from traffic growth and device shifts to routing, security, and ISP market share.

Understanding how a country’s local networks change over time helps explain performance and resilience, and highlights where local interconnection can make a real difference. That’s also the spirit behind OpenIX Beirut and P Foundation’s pledge to make connectivity more local so more traffic can stay local when it makes sense.

<!--truncate-->

## Quick 2025 facts [^1]

- Traffic grew by **36%**.
- Top services (ranked): **Google**, **Facebook**, **Instagram**, TikTok, WhatsApp, YouTube, Apple Services, Microsoft, Snapchat, Outlook.
- Messaging apps (ranked): **WhatsApp** leads, followed by **QQ**, then **Telegram**, Viber, Signal, WeChat, imo, Facebook Messenger.
- Mobile OS share shifted:
  - **iOS rose to 37%** (from 27%)
  - **Android fell to 63%** (from 73%)
- Google remains the most popular search engine with **~97%** market share.
- IPv6 adoption decreased from **0.96%** to **0.77%**.
- Latency remains high for most services at around **51 ms**.
- Desktop traffic increased from **39%** to **45%**.
- Routing security (RPKI):
  - **0.25% decrease** in RPKI-valid IPv4 address space in Lebanon
  - **0.51% increase** in RPKI-valid IPv4 routes in Lebanon

## ISP and network market share: what changed

Lebanon’s ISP landscape saw noticeable shifts between 2024 and 2025. **OGERO** (AS42003), **the dominant state telecom provider, declined slightly from 17.96% to 16.75%**, pointing to increased competition and service constraints.

The largest gain came from **Alfa** (AS57513), which **grew from 6.23% to 7.61%**, consistent with stronger mobile Internet usage and/or improved service reach. By contrast, **TH Global Vision** (AS59989) **dropped sharply from 6.48% to 4.77%**, losing nearly **26%** of its prior share.

Beyond TH Global Vision’s decline, **several established players lost ground**. Energy Bridge (AS56902) slipped from 3.41% to 3.04%, Sodetel (AS31126) from 1.45% to 1.22%, and WaveNet (AS31037) from 1.36% to 1.08%. More dramatically, GSL Networks (AS137409) fell from 0.43% to 0.11% (a ~74% drop), and EagleNet (AS60372) decreased from 0.63% to 0.46%.

Mobile operators diverged: **Alfa grew strongly**, while Touch (AS38999) rose more modestly from 5.90% to 6.36%. The **entry of Starlink** (AS14593) at 0.035% is also notable, introducing LEO satellite Internet into the Lebanese market potentially pressuring traditional ISPs, particularly in underserved and rural areas.

Several **smaller providers posted strong growth**. My ISP (AS34447) grew from 1.19% to 2.04%, and Ferrari Networks (AS39402) increased from 1.60% to 2.16%. ZINA SARL (AS206519) expanded from 0.30% to 0.51% (+68%), while Smart Networks (AS34458) rose from 1.09% to 1.37%. Among **micro-ISPs**, Smart City (AS204429) more than doubled (0.08% to 0.20%), Coinnet/Matrix (AS214728) nearly quadrupled (0.02% to 0.07%), and CONNEXIONS SAL (AS205423) increased from 0.004% to 0.018%. AOUN Networks (AS13044) stood out with growth from 0.07% to 0.33%, **suggesting aggressive expansion and/or acquisition activity**.

Overall, the market appears to be gradually fragmenting. The **top 5 providers accounted for roughly 44% of traffic** (down from 45% in 2024), and **the top 10 accounted for about 62%** (down from 63%). Meanwhile, **stable performers** such as TerraNet (AS39010) (9.75% → 9.95%) and IDM (AS9051) (9.74% → 9.90%) **maintained their positions**, suggesting strong retention despite broad turbulence.

Finally, the presence of **200+ ASNs**, including many micro-ISPs below 0.1% share, reflects Lebanon’s **highly fragmented telecom environment shaped by infrastructure limitations**, the electricity crisis, and regulatory complexity. The trend also suggests Lebanese consumers are increasingly willing to switch providers for better service, **with mobile (and potentially satellite) emerging as viable alternatives** to traditional fixed-line access.

## Top 30 networks in Lebanon

| Rank | ISP / ASN                            | 2024 Share | 2025 Share | Change (pp) |
| ---: | ------------------------------------ | ---------: | ---------: | ----------: |
|    1 | OGERO TELECOM (AS42003)              |     17.96% |     16.75% |       -1.20 |
|    2 | TERRANET (AS39010)                   |      9.75% |      9.95% |       +0.20 |
|    3 | IDM (AS9051)                         |      9.74% |      9.90% |       +0.16 |
|    4 | ALFA (AS57513)                       |      6.23% |      7.61% |       +1.39 |
|    5 | TOUCH (AS38999)                      |      5.90% |      6.36% |       +0.46 |
|    6 | TH GLOBAL VISION (AS59989)           |      6.48% |      4.77% |       -1.71 |
|    7 | MASCO (AS43824)                      |      4.59% |      4.77% |       +0.18 |
|    8 | ENERGY BRIDGE (AS56902)              |      3.41% |      3.04% |       -0.37 |
|    9 | VISP (AS35197)                       |      2.59% |      2.98% |       +0.39 |
|   10 | NETPRO (AS48206)                     |      2.54% |      2.28% |       -0.27 |
|   11 | FERRARINETWORKS(AS39402)             |      1.60% |      2.16% |       +0.56 |
|   12 | MY ISP (AS34447)                     |      1.19% |      2.04% |       +0.85 |
|   13 | FARAHNET (AS43019)                   |      1.63% |      1.73% |       +0.10 |
|   14 | CBEY (AS206406)                      |      1.28% |      1.42% |       +0.14 |
|   15 | SMARTNETS (AS34458)                  |      1.09% |      1.37% |       +0.28 |
|   16 | CONNECT (AS48847)                    |      1.37% |      1.37% |       +0.00 |
|   17 | SODETEL(AS31126)                     |      1.45% |      1.22% |       -0.23 |
|   18 | WAVENET (AS31037)                    |      1.36% |      1.08% |       -0.28 |
|   19 | NET360 (AS42183)                     |      1.12% |      0.97% |       -0.15 |
|   20 | MNETS (AS41956)                      |      1.06% |      0.89% |       -0.17 |
|   21 | CYBERIA (AS24634)                    |      0.82% |      0.86% |       +0.03 |
|   22 | BBP (AS42334)                        |      0.74% |      0.78% |       +0.05 |
|   23 | FIBERSKYNET (AS49020)                |      0.73% |      0.75% |       +0.02 |
|   24 | TOPNETLB(AS42828)                    |      0.78% |      0.75% |       -0.03 |
|   25 | BITAR NET (AS50500)                  |      0.79% |      0.71% |       -0.08 |
|   26 | FIBER NETWORKS (AS202987)            |      0.61% |      0.66% |       +0.06 |
|   27 | ICONNECT (AS15511)                   |      0.69% |      0.65% |       -0.04 |
|   28 | PROS (AS57256)                       |      0.53% |      0.62% |       +0.09 |
|   29 | BSMART (AS25471)                     |      0.56% |      0.53% |       -0.04 |
|   30 | REMINI TELECOM - VIP GROUP (AS51104) |      0.48% |      0.52% |       +0.03 |

_Change (pp) = 2025 share minus 2024 share (percentage points). Values rounded to 2 decimals._

## OpenIX Beirut

OpenIX Beirut is built to strengthen Lebanon’s Internet by making local interconnection simpler, faster, and more accessible—so networks can exchange traffic locally instead of sending it abroad when it doesn’t need to.

OpenIX Beirut is **open for business** since October 2025. We welcome Lebanese networks, mobile operators, content and cloud platforms, enterprises, and CDNs to join and peer locally. [Click here to learn more](https://p.foundation/OpenIX/beirut).

---

[^1]: Data is based on traffic observed on our network, supplemented by publicly available Cloudflare data. For additional context, see [Cloudflare Radar 2025 Year in Review for Lebanon](https://radar.cloudflare.com/year-in-review/2025/lb). Cover image credit: Piotr Chrobot (Unsplash); edited with Google Nano Banana.
